# incbin.bat

Sometimes you need to embed binary data into a C/C++ program.
`incbin` is a cross-platform utility to do just that.

Unlike other solutions, `incbin` is written using only components
that already ship with the operating system; no third-party tools
need to be installed for it to work.

What's notable about this script is that it's cross-platform, and
works equally well on both Windows and UNIX systems. Yep that's
right - this is a polyglot script that works under both .bat and sh.

### Example usage:  
```
Windows:      incbin.bat myfile.bin output.h foo
UNIX:         sh incbin.bat myfile.bin output.h foo
```
(where 'foo' is the C symbol name you want the data stored in)

### Further usage

Here's an example showing how to call `incbin` from a Makefile:

```make
all : foo.h

SCRIPTSHELL := $(if $(findstring $(OS),Windows_NT),cmd /c,sh)

foo.h : test.png
	$(SCRIPTSHELL) incbin.bat $< $@ foo
```

### Output format

Here's an example of the kind of output you get:

`incbin.bat test.bin foodata.h foo`

```c
/* Generated by incbin */

#include <stddef.h>

const unsigned char foo_data[] = {
/*00000000*/ 0x40,0x65,0x63,0x68,0x6F,0x20,0x6F,0x66,0x66,0x0D,0x0A,0x22,0x43,0x3A,0x5C,0x50,
/*00000010*/ 0x72,0x6F,0x67,0x72,0x61,0x6D,0x20,0x46,0x69,0x6C,0x65,0x73,0x20,0x28,0x78,0x38,
/*00000020*/ 0x36,0x29,0x5C,0x4D,0x69,0x63,0x72,0x6F,0x73,0x6F,0x66,0x74,0x20,0x56,0x69,0x73,
/*00000030*/ 0x75,0x61,0x6C,0x20,0x53,0x74,0x75,0x64,0x69,0x6F,0x20,0x39,0x2E,0x30,0x5C,0x56,
/*00000040*/ 0x43,0x5C,0x62,0x69,0x6E,0x5C,0x76,0x63,0x76,0x61,0x72,0x73,0x33,0x32,0x2E,0x62,
/*00000050*/ 0x61,0x74,0x22,0x0D,0x0A
};

const size_t foo_size = sizeof(foo_data);
```

### License

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to <http://unlicense.org>
